-----------
 BRAINMAZE
-----------

Basic instructions. This program prints a maze to the stdout device.
Use make to compile and link all code then test the program by typing
    brainmaze q
where q is the number of recursive levels you want the fractal to descend.
I suggest levels between 2 and 5. I have successfully tested the program
with q = 9 levels. I redirected output to a file. After a few minutes I
ended up with a 1 Meg text file (which is a maze on a grid 1024x1024), so
you can see that the maze size increases exponentially with the numbers of
recursive levels you choose. If you execute
    brainmaze 3
you will get a nice demonstration that will fit on the screen.
    brainmaze 5
will generate a maze that will fit inside the 80-columns of a printer.

I had a lot of trouble getting the math library to work with gcc. I
finally discovered after much WORK that gcc does not like the POSIX
code in the math.h header file. Convieniently, there is a conditional
compile switch in the math.h header to turn off the POSIX section of the
header file. All that you need to do is
    #define _POSIX_SOURCE 1
somewhere BEFORE you #include<math.h>. After that everything is nice. You
just need to put -lm at the end of the gcc link line in he makefile. This
links the math library.

My program demonstrates a technique for generating a maze using a
DIVE-AND-CONQUER recursive fractal technique. I call this algorithm 
The Brain Maze(tm) since it resembles those pictures of the brain that
you often see in medical textbooks on cranial invasive surgical techniques.
It is physiologically impossible to explain the complete operation of the
Brain Maze(tm) algorithm in a simple 7-bit ASCII text file; nevertheless,
I shall endevour to excrete some intuitive understanding of the basic
operation of this algorithm.

Given a blank slate, a sheet of paper, a universe, or what-have-you, you
can divide this into four sections. These four sections can then be
further quartered. Continue quartering your slate, paper, universe until
you become very very tired. Then take one of the smallet elements that you
have and divide it into nine (3x3) sections. This will be your elemental
maze. There are size possible elemental mazes that can be drawn on a 3x3
grid. They look like U or H or rotations of these. You then chose one
of these six mazes and put it on your 3x3 grid. Do this for all the
quarterings that you have generated. Then each group of four elemental mazes
are combined at three places. Then each group of group of four are
combined, then each group of group of group of four, and so on until your
completely fill your slate, paper, universe...

- Noah Spurrier

